---
title: "Oh what the hell Strapi"
created_at: 2020-10-20T23:18:07.000Z
published_at: 2020-10-21T00:25:56.000Z
---
I know I [talked](https://writelier.com/bye-strapi-hello-rails-(again)-69bc1104-e225-4dd0-9dc5-68f7c1b847ac) about losing Strapi to get back to Rails. Made lots of solid reasoning and observations about this new shiny tech stack, compared to good ol' Rails. But over the past week, I couldn't get my ass back to Rails, even though I knew 'rationally' I should. I kept going back to the Strapi browser windows I got opened, kept checking their forum to learn new things, even answering some questions. Today I even got back to trying out one of their Youtube tutorials about tweaking the findOne GET request to be by slug than by id, a tutorial which I failed at previously. And guess what, I got it to work! What the hell, Strapi, you'll be the death of me. I wanted to walk away but I kept looking back. Using Strapi still excites me. Using Rails, not so much. I love the JAMstack way of making products, and Strapi is right smack in it. Is it wrong to be tech-centric, to love using certain tools to get to an outcome even though I'm less competent with it, it gets me there slower and with less certainty? In the recent past, yes. I was an entrepreneur who happens to be a maker/developer, who just wants to get to the destination, the objective, the outcome. But weirdly, I find myself moving down the opposite direction now. I'm so drinking all the KoolAid on all things developer, even the culture and the geeking out on tech. And so even though Rails was the logical choice in my head, my heart didn't. And more and more, the heart seems to be the head pilot of this flight. Teething problems with new tech and difficult to get support, yeah it isn't the most efficient and practical to get into Strapi right now, but eventually it can be solved...right? Technical problems are just that. Technical. But the problems and barriers of what's within—heart, spirit, soul, whatever you call it— can't be solved with code or questions on Stack Overflow (though I would love to see someone try!). 

Oh what the hell. I'll just get back to Strapi. 

Gosh this is beginning to read like some elicit _Before Sunrise_ affair. An affair that turned out right...... I hope.
